They'll say something very high level about what the customer or user or struggling person would want, which is like, I want to make more money.
And it doesn't really get at the underlying drivers of the desire to make more money, for example.
So when I'm in this situation, I have this motivation to move forward. To make progress so I can get this desired outcome.
One helpful way to approach this framework and this. Formula is to start backwards. So work your way from the expected outcome.
Back towards the motivational drivers in the circumstance. So another, way of thinking about this formula is problem solution.
Opportunity and or desired outcome. There's a lot of ways to slice it, but. This will become more clear once you start to play with what you already think the job to be done is So a week and a half from now, when Lillian is leading a workshop that we refer to as W 3.
She's going to have you make an attempt at essentially doing this in a different way. And once you come up with what you think the job statement is.
You're gonna compare that to the data that you actually gather when you're conducting your interviews just to like basically test against it.
Anything you want to add here, Liana? Good? Okay. Cool.
Oh, it's next week. Okay.
No, that's exactly right. And I'm gonna do W 3 next week. I actually moved it up, cause I, we keep referring to it.
So I think it would be better for you guys to see it sooner rather than waiting.
Yeah, I mean, I like the idea of getting our stuff out of the way even before the program starts so that they have more time with all the other smart people that we're pulling in.
So that's good. Alright. This is Jason. He made the product that we're forcing all to use for the program called base camp.
He's done a bunch of other cool things and but he's been running that business for 25 years.
I think they came out with base camp 20 years ago. I've been a user since 2,008.
So yeah, and there's a whole story between he and I. We're good friends.
He's one of my only investors.
I spent a lot of time working with him in Chicago, out of his office, and I've spent a lot of time getting to know him and his team and his company and a lot of their thinking has been kind of embedded into my own personal kind of business DNA.
So a lot of deep connections there. And he is the reason I got introduced to Bob Mesta because at his office is where they were hosting these jobs to be done switch workshops in Chicago.
And that was my initial exposure back in like, 2013. So like 11 years ago. He, he wrote some best selling books.
Has anyone read any of these? We work is probably the most popular but they were ahead of the curve on remote work.
The one on the far right it doesn't have to be crazy at work is a lot of fun to read but might be hard for a lot of you all to embody currently a startup founders but There's a lot there and then my favorite book is getting real on the far left which came out in 2,006 but it was the book that inspired me to you know study web development become a software engineer and you
know build products myself. So a lot of really really thoughtful kind of counterintuitive thinking and they're very very well-known for being outspoken against venture capital in Silicon Valley.
So it's kind of ironic that I'm in the situation. I'm in, given our relationship.
But I'm hoping to bring a lot more of their thinking and perspective into this environment.
Alright, so some of you all may know I ran for mayor of Chicago if you didn't it's all good, but I use base camp to do it and that's why you'll see that I'll tell you more about that story in Tahoe, but I use base camp for everything.
I've used base camp too, you know, banished classes when I was in school. I used it to run my campaign.
I used it to, you know, run our team. I've used it for so many things.
My personal and professional life. But you know, project management. So here's the deal.
Bob Mesta, Ryan Singer, myself and Jason Fried did a round of jobs to be done interviews and we came up with some outcomes from those 15 interviews that we did.
Where we talked to recent customers of base camp. Who were you know paying anywhere from $30 to $200 a month for the tool from a variety of payment plans that you know we had at the time.
So let's just assume that we did this jobs to be done work. I'm gonna skip the line and get rid of the process and stuff, explain the process for the past 2 days.
I'm going to show you the result. So there were 4 main jobs. That came of talking to 15 customers, recent customers at base camp.
Here's the first one.
We can't keep working like this. So what we found was that there were people who were signing up for base camp.
Because they were dealing with hair on fire challenges. There were issues with information being lost. Being overwhelmed, lots of notifications, lots of calls, lots of emails, lots of things that were distracting and frustrating and it just boiled over.
And there was a moment where they all realized that something has to change or a single person realized that. And that was what came from the conversations that we had with the most people.
Among the 15 that we talked to.
Another one was we can't mess up like that again. I think Lilian alluded to this too in an example yesterday.
But a lot of the times when you're working on behalf of someone else or you have a client.
And you do something wrong or you screw up. There was like this reactive moment where they decided, hey, I need to demonstrate to my client and to others.
That I'm not going to make the same mistake. And this is a way to demonstrate that I have more structure, more organization, and more certainty around what I'm doing, how I'm operating, and what I'm offering.
Next was this project isn't getting off the ground. So people were signing up for base camp because they realized that There was something, missing from their momentum.
To kinda like get something rolling. They needed wind in their sales, if you will. So there was this pattern emerging from a lot of folks we talked to who had some sort of need to get real or get serious about a project.
And and signing up for base camp was was enabling that. And then last but not least, how am I gonna pull this off?
So it's almost like you're looking at this mountain that you have to climb and you're like overwhelmed by the enormity of the task.
So because of that you want to juice up, you want something that's going to help propel you to progress.
So it's kind of like putting on the Iron Man suit. So, with these 4 buckets, it might seem intuitive and easy and you might be nodding your head like, okay, this makes sense.
The amount of work. That's required to get to this level of clarity and distilling. Where your customer segments are and how they stand.
Is much more than meets the eye. And it's better and easier said than done. But here's the result in the 2 buckets that we've talked about.
So one area that we've talked about utilizing jobs insights. Is with respect to demand-sized sales.
So meeting your customers where they are, knowing what language to share with them, going to your homepage and updating it based on what you've learned and what language they use to talk about their struggling moments.
Here's how at the time, once we had these insights, base camp evolved how it positioned itself.
Base camp solves the critical problems that every growing business deals with. So if you go to their site now, it's very different than what you see here.
Cause this was over 10 years ago. But the message is still true. And it's still there and it's still very powerful and I still use this example for that reason.
And it's so fascinating and, and this is a very common thing, especially among like, Silicon Valley like Y Combinator startups and stuff like that.
They still rip off of base camp when it comes to language copy design. Which I love, given that it's, it has been until recent years a Chicago company.
But, that being said, Think of every aspect of how you would communicate when it comes to marketing, messaging, copy.
You know, follow-ups, all of that. Now having the language that you derive from the customers that recently signed up for your product.
Especially if those customers represent the audience that you want to continue to appeal to or expand your reach in. So that's on the marketing side, just a quick reference.
The other component. Does anyone remember what the other piece of utilizing jobs? Host insights would be so one side is marketing sales demand side What's the other aspect of utilizing jobs?
Product government. Product.
Yeah. Yeah, good job, believe me.
What's that? You say product. Yeah, yeah, there we go. So boom, so what you'll see is, and this has come a long way too.
Like it's funny, like base camp 3 and now base camp 4. It's this and it's essentially this except with a much I think I would refer to as more modern UI.
Layout at this point, but it's mostly the same thing. So what you're seeing here is these product changes and the framing of what the features are actually doing.
Are oriented around the benefits rather than just saying what the tool does. So it's not to do is get more done, manager to do is it's forget micromanaging.
Because that's what we heard in the interviews. Was that people were worried about being micromanaged and that's why they were struggling to organize their work in a certain way and be transparent about it.
Messy email threads being replaced. Being overwhelmed with slack and hip chat and all the notifications and the always on, you know, component having documents and files scattered all over the place and not so it's like, what are we replacing?
With each of these components and it's still true to this day that I mean, most of our company for that matter, tech stars.
Manages information in a variety of places and struggles with that information management. So, I thought this was a brilliant approach to how to frame things and I really can't, you know, speak to.
The numbers about base camp, but I'll just say this. If people knew. Their business performance.
If you knew it. A lot more people would be paying attention to what they have to say. But they don't share their numbers, they don't talk about, you know, at scale where they're at in their reach, but it's way more than what people would imagine.
They think of them as like a kind of a small company because there's only like, there's less than 100 people that work there.
And at the time there were like probably 30 or 40 people there. 10 years ago. They're punching way above their weight.
So, alright. And I wanted to do the same thing. So under Jason's tutelage and others, I built a classroom.
Management tool and I've been teaching at Northwestern for the past 10 years. I built an app.
It's no longer, around I kind of sunset it because I decided to go a different direction with you know my work in my business but I had a great time building an app.
It was basically like my vision was base camp for classrooms because I was frustrated in running my own coding school as well as teaching in university with using a lot of these arcane.
Tools. So I put everything in one place with respect to teaching. And I ended up getting some university professors to use it.
I had a little bit of traction, but I didn't get too serious with it because I built it kind of on the side just as an excuse to learn from the 37 signals guys on product development.
So here is the job formula that I gave you the job story in action. Once I did jobs to be done interviews for building Lantern 2.
Which I was talking to university professors about and, students. So, yeah, sure.
Before you begin. This example is really important because this is very similar to what you guys are going to present.
At the end of your whole jobs to be done round. So we won't get into it for a while.
With your synthesis and analysis, but this just a sneak preview so that you guys can keep the end in mind while you're performing your interviews.
Yeah, and you'll relate to this because most of you all have been in some kind of classroom setting at some point so you can understand from a teaching or teacher perspective what these struggling moments might look like in the university context.
So here's the first. I've got a week before class starts. And it's time to update the curriculum and syllabus.
Sophie is probably, you know, remembering this because she and I are literally doing this like yesterday and today, right?
We just worked on the syllabus, so you just worked on the syllabus. So this is true when I'm prepping for my next class.
For my class next quarter during the break I want to make changes based on what I've learned the last time so I can have a plan and stick to it going in each class.
And I put that in image behind the screen here for a reason. And M's on plots.
So the notion is that like I have all my ducks in a row. I know what I want to offer, how I want to prepare.
And it's not so different than like running a tech stars program in some respects too. We always try to improve the content in the curriculum.
So that's what I heard not just from my own story, but from interviewing other teachers. There's a prep.
Time that goes into before starting the class. Then in class, this part of class didn't go as planned.
I need to adjust what we're doing. So we teach a 3 h class. It's pretty long.
Lot comes up. So when I'm teaching and something doesn't go according to plan, I want to make an adjustment to the class in real time so I can keep my students engaged and not feel this organized.
This will disrupt the syllabus. This will disrupt your course plan. What homework you assign, what the follow-up needs to be, who you invite to the next class, like all types of things come up as you go that you need to make audibles and adjustments for.
And then last but not least, did I teach a successful class today? So when I'm done with class for the day, I want to know what went well and what could be better so I can make adjustments for next class and next time.
So this is a great reminder that even in the past couple days, I've been doing jobs to be done workshops for y'all.
One thing that we haven't done effectively is actually get your feedback on how that's going and iterate on that feedback for the next session.
Like ideally over the past 2 days, I would have learned what worked and what didn't so that we could show up today with a better version of the same, you know, session.
But the alternative now is to still get your feedback implement. Thoughts and ways to improve how we run these sessions and workshops with you for next week.
And for our next programs in the fall that we would run. So that all being said, those are 2 examples of, you know, outcomes that you all could imagine presenting and can embodying yourselves.
But just know that that's just the beginning of the journey, right? So the job, all of the stuff we've been talking about is one component to an important formula of combining your understanding of the job to be done.
With the patterns of what's possible, both technologically as well as, you know, just from a demand side perspective, what's you know, valuable to the user to experience.
And then that's how you formulate either a product concept or product improvements. So with that. What we're facing over the next couple of weeks is a challenging of your assumptions.
And it's going to become, if not already. A canonical foundation for all of your product sales and growth strategies moving forward.
So it's almost like the seed that you plant that becomes the root. And the base for the tree that's growing that is your business.
It's by far one of the most differentiating factors that I've seen at the early stage for founders because so few people try truly at an in depth way understand this framework.
So with respect to this, I don't think we need to actually take a few minutes to do it.
So I think this is a helpful exercise. It's also referred to in the book. But
I think it's important for each of you to think about. This whether this is going going to be a good use of your time because at the end of the day we're imploring each of you to do this.
But you're all adults. So you don't have to. Okay, at the end of day if you're like, hey, I really don't think this is a good use of my time.
I'm gonna respect that.
But I would love to make sure that we are on the same page about your understanding of your customer. So if you think that this is already one level below where you're at with your understanding and your traction in progress.
I'll do respect. I got you. And we're happy to move on to the next phase and expedite where you're at.
It's so uncommon and so rare and I'm telling you businesses that are making tens of millions of dollars if not hundreds of millions of dollars are still iterating on jobs and still applying this framework to their progress and growth.
So hopefully you're getting the message there. But I'll just end with this quote from Bob.
Which I think is something that is almost like one of my mantras with respect to business these days.
The struggling moment is the seed for all innovation. Find where people struggle if they're not struggling, they're not buying.
So a lot of people will go back and ask at the beginning of these, you know, 3 days.
I said, like, what's the problem that you're solving? And then they struggle and they start talking about solution that go tell me a story.
So that struggling moment. That's another way to reframe the same question when you talk to people in the elevator or very quickly you have a little minute time to talk about what you're doing.
Try to focus on the struggling moment of the individual you're supporting. And once you identify that, I think these mentor conversations you're going to have, the investor conversations you're going to have being a part of our program are going to go a lot better.
Yeah, so another thing that Bob said to me a long time ago is contrast creates meaning.
He's re-purposed this quote a few times. But, I wanted to leave you all with that.
And then one other thing that I promise, which are the questions to ask during the interview itself. So I'm going to just show you all of them and then I'll call out a few that I think are really helpful.
Oh, okay.
So I'll talk about a few of these that I think are helpful and then I would love to field any questions that you all have about.
How relevant any of these questions may be. But like we said, we don't go into jobs to be done interviews.
With a script. But there are a few generally framed prompts and questions like these that can help drive you along to fill out your timeline.
So when I asked who was with you or was anyone else involved in the purchasing decision when you were deciding to buy who was in the room?
What were the alternatives you considered? A lot of people forget to ask that because they're so focused on the purchase that was made.
But what were the alternatives? What was the best thing? What was good enough? Asking them following up and saying, why didn't you choose them?
Those win questions that we had a good encore conversation once our meeting yesterday ended talking about the power of when as opposed to why.
Asking about a product or an experiences deficiencies, what were its shortcomings before. Having people talk about what was going on around them that day, what they were doing recapping their day. Where did they started?
Where did they end it? And then Maybe some of these other later questions towards the end here.
How do you normally approach using or choosing a new product? So that enters a more amorphous land, but at the same time, it can bring people back to recalling certain details.
About what you want to talk to them about. But yeah, asking about time of day, asking about who you were with, and then kind of navigating around the contrast of what wasn't working.
Or why what they had already wasn't adequate. Tend to lead you down a road where you have a deeper understanding and it opens up the conversation even more.
Yeah, so hopefully this is addressing. I forgot who asked me for this. Yes, yesterday, but I hope I answered your question by sharing some of these tips and tidbits.
Any questions about these questions?
Good. Okay.
So, to conclude, Jobs to be done can inform your business decisions can change the way you market your company.
It can influence the language you used to describe your product. It can change where you're advertising, what channels you're leveraging.
Hello.
It can change how you're selling. Who you're selling to. It's not about a particular industry.
It's not about demographics. It's not even about the competitive landscape.
It's all about the situation that the person you're trying to help us in. The reality that they're trying to wrangle.
And the progress that they're trying to make.
Welcome to Techstars. You have now been inoctrinated in the ways of jobs to be done.
Any questions?
Game on, let's go.
We have some questions now.
Yeah.
Yeah, thanks. Just a quick question. So when a company's completely new and doesn't, don't have any users or haven't had any sort of introduce, I can see the path being relatively straightforward, but if you already have tens of users in a already have done some interviews, you may have your head filled in with certain patterns you have picked up along the way.
And so in this case, I wonder how you suggest dealing with that, how to kinda forget what you need to forget and keep in mind what you need to keep in order to to move smoothly.
You have a strategy in mind, Doton, about who you like what more you want, right?
Yeah.
You want more people to be like served by you, right? You want more customers. So if you have an idea on who more like you want of, if you have those people within your current customer base, meaning models of them.
That you want to talk to them to understand how to find more. If you don't have them within your customer base and you'll have to do you have to treat it almost like a new business.
So you have to find a new segment, a new struggling moment that you're unpacking and understanding from.
So, but either way, you need to either talk to your current customers. Or to new potential customers about their struggling moments.
So I hope I'm not talking too abstractly by describing it that way, but like. Yes, you'll have to get out of your own head, but even by talking to your existing customers, you're going to learn new things.
Do you suggest? Sort of. Trying to forget the patterns we have learned so far and coming to it with an open mind or try to come with it with a pattern we have already observed so far and take them with us to the interview.
Excellent question. So. There's a couple of answers to it. One.
What we would traditionally say, especially those of us who've taught jobs. Don't go in with any preconceived notions and assumptions.
You are you will benefit the most if you have complete. Open mind to what you're going to learn in find out.
I offer a compromise though. Because I realize at this stage as founders. You all need to be.
Extremely confident in what you're doing. You need to, cause you're crazy. You're starting a new company.
Right.
You're founding a business. You have to have conviction about that. You can't just go, well, I don't know anything and I'm gonna talk these people and maybe I'll find out no no no you didn't I didn't invest in you because you weren't sure.
I invested in you because you all believe that you could build your businesses. So that being said, my compromise is.
Go in with what you think the job is. And if we are pleasantly surprised that you are spot on.
With your understanding of jobs, all I'm asking for is a couple of weeks. Of effort to validate that you are spot on with your understanding already.
There has almost never, I don't think there's ever been a case. Where someone has done that.
And been exactly right. Never happened in in the history of my existence. I've been on this arch for almost 37 years.
So let's see if one of you all proved me wrong and you think of the job and then we do the research together and then at the output the job is exactly what you said it was.
I don't know if that will happen, but I would love for, you know, I would love to, you know, to find that out.
I will say though I will brag for a moment. We're gonna teach you all financial modeling.
Troy Hannah Coff himself is going to come and teach you financial modeling. The one thing that we always say about a financial model is that it's wrong.
However, I think when I saw my business, because Truth taught me, I built a financial model.
And it was pretty much dead on right. I was so proud. Like I've designed it. I executed it.
And when I launched my business and I started making money and I had customers and I plugged it in the model.
It was pretty much one to one what I predicted it would be and I was so proud. But that never happened.
So good luck with that. So hopefully answered your question. Don't tell.
Okay. Thanks. Yeah, thanks.
Good. Christy.
Yes, my questions around like the best person to conduct. The jobs to be done interview.
Because a lot of the our assistant customers we have it's it's all founder-led I feel like if I'm doing it, I would be inserting some kind of bias.
And I know you recommended, you know, having at least 2 people do it, but I'm just.
Wary that if I'm there. That it may actually be counterproductive.
You're worried because What will happen if you're there because they know you? What what are you fearing?
Yeah.
Well, this is exactly what this happened a couple of times. And I, and, you know, my co-founder, Richelle, it's like phenomenal.
I mean, just watching her, I get super impressed. I'm just very empathetic and she's really, embrace this whole framework.
What happens is that the customers Because I'm there, I feel like they're very complimentary.
And it's kind of embarrassing for me and I feel like we have to kind of get quickly past that.
So if you have any guidance, on how I, you know, on how we can kind of just minimize because if they're flattering me.
Then they're more concerned about saying the right things to me because I'm there.
You can still get them to talk to you. You can, you can do it. You can get them to genuinely talk, I believe.
Okay. Okay.
Yes.
I've done it. So what happens is yes, there's there is a moment of ceremony where there's gratitude and there's like, wow, I'm talking to the CEO of the company, like, wow, you're the founder of this. Thank you so much.
Okay. Yeah. Okay.
And like, there's all that. But then eventually you start to ask real questions and you start to get into what's going on in their life and you realize that if so long as you don't talk about you yourself too much or your business or your product and you get back to them in their story.
The situation becomes real.
Okay. Yeah, because I mean, I do have the, you know, rapport with them.
So I feel like I should be able to help. Them you know open up and there's that you know closeness already so I yeah I need to just tap more into that.
You got it. Yeah. And we can help you too. If you record your sessions and there's a a clip within your, conversation that you're like.
I was struggling in this moment to like actually figure out what to say or respond with to actually get them to refocus.
We we can review the tape with you if you will.
Yeah. And we did record, some interviews already. And we did it on a dovetail.
Yeah. Look, watch the tape.
That's it. It's a sports analogy, but like that's what we do, right?
So maybe both this will go back to those interviews and actually. Cause I think. Yeah. Right.
If anybody's here played sports. You play a sports game, you have a competition. Afterwards you go watch what happened and what was going on and then you learned so much from reflecting on it.
The same thing with jobs.
Sure.
Okay. I had this similar concern when I was doing my jobs to be done and my 2 sons about that is that if you're doing it right They won't even talk about you or things related to the company at all.
They're just gonna talk about their experience. So it's almost no room for them to. To I guess.
Be complementary to your business.
Yeah, yeah, thanks. How does the, I guess, for at a high level, and then also maybe getting some of the nuance of how the jobs to read on framework is augmented when you're in a B 2 B.
Space. Like we're we're primarily selling to businesses. And some like to keep kind of further going with what you were talking about when you talk about like the morphine versus like the the annoyance.
Our solution is like in a B 2 B to C situation. Our solution is the morphine. To the sea in that situation, but for the middle B, the people, the businesses that we're selling to.
I wouldn't categorize it that because we're trying to open up a whole new basically asset class a whole new area of business for them.
So it's not a pain point for them per say. That's one of the things we're kind of struggling threading that needle and then trying to put everything in the context of all of this advice, but you know, in a beat it, you know, for B to B, rather than B to C.
That's great. Yeah, on the on the B 2 B side is there a group of people in that B 2 B situation where it does happen to be in extreme need.
We're
Like is there is a smaller subset of customers there that actually have the the pain on the business side.
Pins?
Yeah, that's where, you know, we actually started off B to C realize it scale better, helping other businesses access.
Yeah.
Underwriting for high risk borrowers. And we are helping other fintechs realize that there is this market opportunity and we are the first mover and that's part of the problem which is we know there's this morphine neat by the end consumer but it's not being facilitated by today's lenders.
Mmm.
And that's where like they don't feel that there's a need here, but it's only because they don't realize how much demand there is if they were to have better AI to improve their lending outcomes.
So they don't think that it's possible to do what we're enabling.
Non-consumption. Yeah, so we wanna study non-consumption and you all's case, right?
That being said, as soon as you find the people who even if most people don't even know that there's a better way of doing business.
The ones that you find that have a more acute need become the case studies and examples and the evidence to guide everyone else along down the path.
Yeah.
So we didn't even know that life could be this good. It reminds me of like I don't know if you all remember a time where we didn't have wireless headphones.
Does anyone remember that? Is, am I too old? Okay, there was a time, right? We didn't have wireless that phones.
Hello.
And then all of a sudden. Bluetooth technology enabled it, but it didn't really become real until Apple did it because other people weren't taking the other Bluetooth, you know, headsets as seriously except us nerds.
Yeah.
So that being said, Now you can't go back. You use wire headphones. You're like, what am I doing?
Like, how am I even living like this? But there's always a time where they didn't realize it was.
Yeah.
So I think you all are in that position. I know I made a B 2 C example, but like there's a B 2 B version of the same thing where as soon as the dam breaks and you have one shining prominent example on the business side of a.
Of an outcome. I think you can, you, you're gonna basically share that story far and wide.
And in a deep in depth case study like way that will make people realize that it's time to actually do business differently and I'll work with you all directly on that so I can't answer your question fully in this session but like 100% will get the prime like dialed on the B 2 B front on the demand side.
And I think.
So, and I think along with that one other thing is for the other companies that might be going for higher value, lower number, high touch white glove kind of sales process.
I think a lot of that will overlap as well for them.
Yeah. I think it's that the enterprise sales being much different based on this fewer number of buyers, but also the conversation around the decoupling of when in the B to B to C space when the buyer that's the consumer that has the demand is different than the person you're trying to sell to.
That being the general pattern. Yeah.
Exactly.
Yep, yep, and you're gonna have to do extra work because of that. So you're gonna have to do multiple rounds of like analysis to actually understand all the different competing needs.
Yeah.
So yeah, that's that's totally a part of it too. One cautionary note for all of you.
Sure.
Is be careful because the reason that a lot of founders end up not getting funded and the reason you end up not making any sales is because You fall into the very simple status of a solution looking for a problem.
You have it in your head that you're convinced that this is a need. Like they need this.
I know that they need this. But the demand isn't there and there's nothing you can do about it.
That is the bedrock for so many struggling companies. Where the founder is just absolutely convinced that this is a demand.
Side need. No evidence and all they have is supply. That's a lot of technical founders who built brilliant.
Really cool technical tools. But they don't have anyone paying them any money for it.
So we'll get there. Ally.
Yes, thank you. So in the case where, and like others were pre product so there's there's no customers using our product just yet right so we talked about it yesterday the best approach is looking at the competitive landscape and think, you know, going through how consumers bought our competitor, value proposition.
My question is, in some of the user categories that we've identified together with Antonio.
There's not necessarily a direct competitor that does one on one what we do. Oh, thank God.
There's, there's a number of adjacent competitors. You know, like, variable devices that are monitoring, continuously, certain, biometrics.
What would be your advice to? Narrowly down for the jobs to be done. Like do we choose the competitor that is closest to us?
Do we, you know, do we go across multiple competitors? Like we choose customers that have purchased, you know, different brands in different things.
What's going to give us the most information? In, in the second part of the question is some of these devices I call them adjacent competitors because they're measuring not just, you know, like the same biometrics or measuring they're measuring others.
So, Should we screen our users on the basis of the motivation? That they had in mind when they acquired those those devices in the first place.
So 2 parts of the question. How do we choose the competitor to go against and should we screen our users on the basis of what was their motivation.
This is why the exercise of framing the learning question is so important. So you need to decide what you want to learn.
And you started to answer that question in the second half of what you were asking. Because you're talking about different competitors that are adjacent or further away, motivations of the users and customers.
My raise to you. Is start from the desired outcome. What desired outcome are you trying to afford?
Which ones of those competitors could teach you the most because the their customers are in pursuit of the outcome that you want to also provide but perhaps in a slightly different way.
You wanna understand what drove them to pay someone else money to make that progress. Simple enough. So we'll review your learning question along with your screening criteria in the next week or 2.
And as we do that, oh actually this week I think it's happening. We're having one on ones with Sophie and Kater and Chloe are helping out with that.
So as we review what you have, make sure that you've done the work to understand what you actually want to find out from talking to another round of customers.
Simple enough.
Now, can you go to the slide that's like the 7 steps of JTV? I think it's where we left off on the first time.
Yeah.
Because I just wanna explain like the order of events, Neil reference the learning objective that is going along with your screening criteria.
So when you meet with our team, you're going to each be framing a learning question or learning objective and that actually sets the stage for your jobs to be done.
A lot of people think that you just go in and you just learn what you learn. But it's a lot more like the scientific method where you're making a, something that you would like to learn more about.
And framing those learning questions informs your screening criteria. So you see you frame the learning question first and that's dependent on your business and your needs right now.
Are you pre product? Are you trying to figure out who to even sell to? Are you trying to figure out why your conversion isn't happening?
As well as it should. Are you trying to figure out why you can't sell into these businesses?
All of those things are completely different and could all refer to the same business, but they would come out with completely different screening criteria and sets of job to be done interviews and a completely different outcome.
And a lot of people in recent programs have been doing multiple rounds, even with the same perceived group with different learning questions.
So even if you're doing your purchasers and not users You can do multiple sets and change your learning question each time and get something different out of it each time.
So I think it's really important to understand with our team you're going to be going through each of you is going to frame learning questions, then create your screening criteria, then you find them, do the individual interviews with them.
You followed by a debrief for each one. Then we'll teach you in a future workshop in week one how to analyze the patterns and after that you'll be able to present your full jobs to be done.
Like analysis at the end. And then after that is the implications and prototyping, which I think someone was asking about at the end of the session yesterday.
That iteration, what happens after we come up with our jobs to be done? Are we running experiments to see if it works?
And the answer is yes. And that's step 7. So that's really the outline here.
And I think it's really important that you understand it and what step we're in in the process.
And I also hope it's clear like what we're talking about. Like it's a totally different ball game to just send you all this information.
Like I hope you realize like we tried to do that during the application process, right? Like we just throw like, here's the job.
So you've done framework, listen to the mattress interview, try to do these things. And I hope that over the past 2 and a half days.
You realize like there's a lot more than meets the eye and there's a lot more under the surface.
Cause I'm just scratching the surface by talking about it so quickly over these 3 days, whereas this is a discipline that you could study and practice for years and still not be a master of.
So, Andy.
If you have a business model where you have 2 types of users, like a marketplace with buyers and sellers.
Is there a framework to, and they're kind of both purchasers? For example, you charge your sellers a listing fee and the buyers obviously buy into when you make a commission of them.
Yep.
Is there a framework? Like, do you treat them as both and kind of run the? The process twice or is there a framework to like prioritize one versus the other?
You run the process twice and you prioritize whichever one. Will either teach you most about the problem first or that for some business reason you have a need to prioritize.
So one like thing that we've said, you know, past couple days is. Focus on whoever is gonna pay you.
Yeah.
But if both groups are paying you, like you've alluded to, then you need to find a way to run both experiments either simultaneously or one after the other.
Yeah. Thank you.
Hi. So as you know, we are building the tools that our customers can make some solutions by themselves for their needs.
Great question. Yeah.
So I understand that there must be some come on. The needs and the stuff to be done.
But when I get into the interview, if I go deeper, it's quite very. So there there are various the vertical industries people also their needs can be different from each other because that we are providing the tools that.
They can make the solutions by themselves I'd like to learn if there's any tips for the Jeff to be done.
Questions
Yeah. Yeah, for sure. So I'm gonna use the example that I like overuse, which is base camp.
But as you can imagine, snow, the like base camp right now is frame is the tool for anyone to get things done, right?
It's a project manager tool and come one, come all, lots of people can sign up for it with so many different situations.
Do you think that's how they started?
No idea.
Where do you think they started?
Using that by themselves.
They use it for themselves, but who were they? They were web designers. So they were doing software consulting.
So when they originally launched base camp, it was 4 people like them. It was for web designers, software consultants to make progress.
And then they spun over to, you know, a few other domains within the same industry. And very slowly but surely went beyond that focused niche.
To broader segments. So it's not a abrupt thing. And one thing I've had to work with lots of tech stars founders on is that you all come in here and we're investing and I asked you the 1 billion dollar startup question and you're like, well, it's gonna be all of these people in all of these markets and all this stuff and I'm like hold on.
We just want 100 customers like if would I mean I'm I'm pretty sure most of you would not deny 100 more customers right.
Those 100 customers that you're gonna get next. Aren't all gonna fit into. 100 different industries or situations.
And if anything, you would benefit from directing your energy and focus to to a subset of people who fit a more specific situation and struggle in the moment.
So my advice to you for run bear right now snow and we'll work with you directly on this like everyone.
Is figure out a particular customer segment that you want to more deeply understand. One helpful tip that comes up a lot here is I'll say among the customers that you already have are users.
Who do you want more of and why? Right? So you don't want them all, or maybe you do.
Maybe you have perfect customers across the board. But there's probably a few that are like super users or some that you are helping way more or they're super loyal or they're like shut up and take my money.
You should have charged me more. Like the ones who'd be willing to pay more or make more progress, you want more of.
So understand them better. Do the work to understand who is getting disproportionate value from what you're offering.
And once you get to know them, you can go, maybe I can find more of you.
So I'll talk to you more about what that looks like, but still hopefully I'm starting to answer your question.
Makes sense, Mason. That makes sense. Thank you.
Marcel.
What's a?
Hi. What's up? I'm so using ch, look. My question is, I'm it's getting more clear and tier every day so that's good.
Good.
Like I have a clear understanding of what I want to learn but now it's like how do I choose because so many options, right?
Right now we have a product. That is out there, but, we're, trying to get to, to make better what we have and introducing something else.
To make better what we have and introducing something else in a nutshell. So do I.
My question is, and that might work for some, any other founders. Do I? Do I go to the people that rejected our product.
That I know and I have still the contact of do I go to the people that are still using our product and they seem.
Which one do you want more of?
Happy and he's working out or like. I know what I want more of, but I also sold curious to see.
Why? Of those that I want more of did not sign up. So it's like, do I?
Well, they have a they have a better existing alternative, right?
They're saying no to you because they're saying yes to something else.
I don't know. I actually. I actually, as what I said, no, they just.
As far as I can tell by just doing my own research and I'm going back to those people, they just did not.
Okay, so who?
They not get someone else. Some people, some people did get someone else and I know exactly who the competition is for this, 16 product.
Okay.
Then talk to them. Talk to the people who said no to you and yes to something else. The people who said no to you and yes to nothing else?
Okay. Exactly. Yeah.
Weren't gonna be your customers anyway. Right? It's the people who are saying yes to something else that you want to better understand.
Okay, well you got my question is would I better go with those people like I think I will learn more from then from my 16 customers that seem to be.
Happy. Or should I make him or I mix it up?
Well, maybe. I would say the Well, I wouldn't mix it up. I would I would choose the lane with the screening criteria.
So people who hire a different tool are different than talking to people who've been a customer of you.
You have to decide if you want to better understand your existing customers or the people who are using a competing, you know, solution.
Okay.
Choose one of those camps to do the research around. Yeah.
One of those cams. Got it. Okay. Thank you.
Yeah, thanks. Thanks for the answer that you give to Mars. So actually something that I was thinking about.
I see you, I see.
Yeah.
So yeah, that's a good answer. I'm also part of the court gang still. I think there's one there's one more person I think much I might be the last person on go that's it as a code.
So we felt a bit attacked. Yeah, so question, as a bit of, because you've probably done so many of these over the years.
When I was looking at the, the, questions that's us suggested that we one of them is around the environmental factors when the person made that decision.
Obviously, There are people when you get to the interview, they are gonna be a bit like, why are you asking me what the weather was like?
Yeah.
Or why are you asking me what time of day it was? And so just how do you deal with those objections around people that think, well, I already gave you some of my time.
Don't waste my time asking about the weather. So how do you deal with those objections? How have you dealt with them?
Yeah. Yeah, so in the beginning, are you might remember this yesterday. I kind of shared a little bit of an introductory script, like when you introduce yourself, what to say.
Part of it is like, hey, we're gonna ask really detailed questions. Sometimes it'll come off a little strange.
Okay.
So you're almost prefacing you're setting the expectation that it's going to be a different conversation than what they might be used to.
So, and, and it creates a sense of mystery for the subject as well. They're like, what do you mean by that?
Like, okay, questions you about to ask me. So it's kind of funny how you do it.
But if you notice, there's a way to do it without them even knowing. So my advice there would be and you'll know this because we'll demonstrate it in a few minutes.
Okay.
We'll give you an example. We'll do it live with somebody here in this room, but Bob is like a master at this.
So the mattress interview if you go back a third time and listen to it. So the mattress interview, if you go back a third time and listen to it, you're gonna hear examples of him doing that without the guy really realizing what he's doing.
Yeah, Mark.
Well, thank you.
How should we prepare for the one on one session? Should we bring a person to interview or something else?
Liliana.
Yes, I own my time.
He's asking how to prepare for the session for the initial session what to bring.
Yeah, I think. Taking a stab at your screening criteria would be helpful. And then they can help you shape it and refine it.
Have an idea of what learning questions would be helpful. Or rather what objectives you're trying to get out of the round.
And then they can help you shape it and get it much more specific. I promise every single one of you who writes a screening criteria before you go in there it's going to be much much too general.
You're going to be surprised by how narrow and specific it actually needs to be in order to have a successful round of jobs to be done.
That is because if you do this wide variety of people and you don't narrow it down, you're not going to get as many insights out of the small amount of interviews that we do.
So because it's a 10 to 15 interview set. I always say this. Yeah, Neil, did you wanna add something?
Yeah.
I just realized how counterintuitive this is because they're all trained to talk to us investor folk.
By saying all of the people that they can appeal to. And we're literally telling you to do the opposite thing.
So I apologize for the counter framing here, but like we're literally saying we don't care about this big market and all these people you think you can appeal to all we care about are like 10 people that exist in the world that have a very specific narrow situation that you think you can address.
Right? Was that you were? Okay, cool. I was just making sure.
Absolutely. Yeah, so something I haven't said it in this, lecture series yet, but something I usually say to the founders is I studied to be an engineer.
So like I have a very analytical mind that's just the way it works. So when Neil initially told me when I was a student many years ago, we're only going to do 10 to 15 interviews.
I was very concerned about the data. Set and it being a small selection pool and things like that.
But the reason that it works is because of this screening criteria. So you're making this very, very narrow set so much so that the interviewees should be relatively the same person like theoretically but those little differences in the interviews are what the trend like will emerge.
If you make your screening criteria much too vague, then you're actually not going to be able to pull many insights will emerge.
If you make your screening criteria much too vague, then you're actually not going to be able to pull many insights much too vague, then you're actually not going to be able to pull many insights because each interview is going to be so different.
I've had some founders come to me and say, I'm not seeing many trends because all these interviews, their stories are like It sounds like they all have a lot of different forces and they're not really meshing.
There aren't patterns emerging. And that shows me that they're Screening criteria was much too vague.
So just keep that in mind. That when K and our other team members help you to narrow it down.
That's gonna help you have a really accurate pool of insights in the end.
Great. Thank you.
Lisa.
Hi, when we talk about narrowing it down, we really talking just about the problem, right?
So it's the feeling rather than Cause I was wondering when it's only 10 people do we try to stick to what we identified as our ideal audience in the sense of social sociographics, right?
Hmm.
Well.
Or do we throw in like a family as well or someone who's a little bit outside of that realm as long as the problem is the same or do you want it narrow in birth side?
Well, I wanna challenge you to remember like the screening criteria should have nothing to do with sociographic or demographic.
It has only to do with a situation. So that's kind of why I jokingly said, do you see that this situation we're describing could be like a young child that's my neighbor, it could be my grandparent and it could be any of us.
It's because it is a situation and that's much more important than any sort of data. Now their situation may have some things to do with demographic.
For example, it could be that you're in a marriage or something like that. And that's where the situation comes up.
We had a company last program that was people who are in a relationship living together and it was a product to help them.
So that was actually inherent in the situation that they would find themselves in. But Lisa's something else that can help you.
Yeah, exactly, Jayless. Pugsis. Something else I can help you is to start with the learning objective.
So we're not just going to go interview who we've already may have identified as the ICP.
You're gonna interview who will help you to get the insights for whatever learning objective you have for this round.
So it's not just, oh, this is who I think my customer is. I need to go interview them and see what are you trying to get out of it?
Hmm.
So maybe it's a smaller subset of them.
So it's not it's not a feeling it's an action. They took an action.
And that action is what you're trying to unpack and understand. So the impetus for the interview itself, like when you sit down with them.
They did something. You hired a therapist. And you start you started working with the therapist in the past 6 months.
Hmm.
What what gives? Right? We're here to talk about that. So just ground yourself not in in a feeling or a category, but in an actual literal circumstance or situation that they struggled through.
And they made a purchase or an action to make progress.
Hmm. Even if, and I think that's what we ended up with yesterday, even if that action is just like expanded energy because it wasn't it wasn't there's no service that does that yet.
Right?
Yes, but I would challenge that as well because that's assuming There's no one to talk to who's going above and beyond to make progress.
Like that's once you've tapped out on the fact that someone is putting either money or real effort down to make progress.
Then you can kind of fall back to that, but usually there is.
Okay, thank you.
Yeah. Jeremy.
Hey guys, so just doubling down back on a point that was brought up earlier. Does it make sense to leverage the jobs to be done in order to position the messaging?
Differently to different situations, investors versus potential customers, and is it okay if that messaging ends up becoming at odds?
Being at odds with what?
You've come and touched on it. For like let's say that whole market size right like and you're you're focusing here but Bye.
Yeah.
You know, being that, to the investors, it may not be like the, oh wow, but get, to the investors, it may not be like the, oh wow, but get this to the customer.
It's like, talking to the customer, but do we need to?
Well, a couple of things here. So now we'll move into like some some fundraising coaching.
Let's just skip to month 3 real quick guys just for a hot second. I love Jeremy's question.
So we'll skip them on 3 for a hot second. Month 3. When you talk to investors, like let me tell you, there's 2 types of founders that like for the most part that we deal with on the investment side.
There's the founders who are like trying to convince us or something. And then there's the founders who are just sharing.
What they're doing and they're giving investors an opportunity to potentially participate. My job is to teach out how to be in bucket 2 and not bucket one.
Bucket one is I want to convince an investor to bet on me. Bucket 2 is I'm giving all y'all in investors an opportunity to make some money with me because I'm gonna go do it either way.
Okay, so the trains leaving the station. You might be able to get a ticket, but it won't be a discount.
So that's the idea of coming out of tech stars. So that being said. The energy you're going to bring to those conversations to frame the demand side of your understanding is that we understand something that most people don't or others don't.
We're serving a very specific and deliberate group of customers right now. For this reason, but there's a much larger group.
Of customers across a variety of segments and situations that we know over time we're going to appeal to as well and we have a strategy to get there.
So that's the way you talk about it. You're sharing with them what you are already planning to do because you have a strategy to target those additional groups.
So it's less about reframing jobs to fit the needs and expectations of an investor and more about just very deliberately sharing your actual business strategy in a way that alludes to deeper insights and what most people have available.
Got it. It's very helpful. Thank you.
Is that tracking Jeremy? Okay. Yeah. So and just so you know, like I'll share again more anecdotes in my actual story since I've worked at like 4 VCs over the past 18 years, but like the only true pattern amongst Venture firms that I've worked at and tech stars for that.
The best deals that get done, the fastest with the most favorable terms to founders and the best outcomes with the founders are the deals that the VCs are in pursuit of.
Not the other way around. So when I'm at that Monday morning, general partner meeting with the VC people I've learned from.
There's always deals being discussed and debated and negotiated, but then there's always like these exceptional deals.
Got it.
That they're talking about where they're trying to get a meeting with the founder. Are they trying to get an audience with them because the founder is just cruising.
But they're doing their thing and they're building their business and they're deciding who to even take meetings with.
Now I know I'm telling a very rosy perfect story of an ideal situation that most of us won't get to but at the very least we owe it to ourselves to try.
Go ahead.
To get to the level where we can take or leave any VC meeting. So that's my investor rant.
Cool. Christy.
Yeah. Thanks.
And just to add to that, I love everything that you said. It's also, being able to attract investors that are lying with your values, right?
Of course.
It's a 2 way street.
Oh, you know, let them pursue you. Right. But my question, I want to get some guidance here.
So, we have 2 segments. We want to learn more on the second segment, which are the retailers.
Our, unique situation is that we've worked through a partner. Oh, ultimately owns the the retail clients.
And so. The mission one we did is we interviewed a partner. Because they're, essentially, kind of licensing it, but the ultimate joint solution.
Is for the retail clients. So do we ask our partner if we can interview their retail clients? The ultimate buyer, it's like B to B to B.
Yeah, so you in a way would be doing them a favor, right? So you need to make sure that they're bought into it.
Okay.
Your intentions are pure, but they may have hesitancy to like provide that gateway, right?
So you need to offer up the right kind of assurances. Just be a reasonable person, put yourself into the partner shoes.
Yeah.
Think about why you would say no to something like that versus why you would say yes. And do your best to frame in an honest way with high integrity, what your approach will be and why.
But like you're gonna have to lay out what the benefits to them doing that would be like be because that's a sensitive thing to do.
To ask your partner to introduce you to the people that they serve.
And in a way, we're already dealing with that. In a smaller scale, they own the larger clients.
Yeah.
So I, but I love that, you know, framing in a way that we, you know, there's a benefit to them.
You know, work to be their extra pair of hands to actually discover, you know, what their customer, jobs that they're trying to get solved because they're trying to solve it themselves through us.
It's the first time in their his company history that they're kind of outsourcing, you know, some kind of service offering.
Yeah.
So they're still trying to figure out it, it figure it out themselves so we could partner in doing that so it would make a great opportunity and also to endure us to our partner, to be more, you know, a stronger channel.
Sales.
Yeah, you're gonna have to throw in the charm, Christy, but you've already got it.
You know, you know how to show up and give people to say yes. So just turn it on.
Thank you.
All right.
Hey, what's going on everyone? Question, How important is the, level, like, is there a level of importance when you're conducting your interview to whether it be with the decision maker or someone who's Maybe contributing to the person who makes the decisions.
Yeah, I care about multiple different stakeholders or both in the example you just shared. So the reason that the middle person is important is because you need usually especially in the B twob context.
To have a champion within the organization. So to understand the needs of the champion as opposed to the needs of the decision-maker, those might be 2 different.
Jobs and you might have to appeal to both jobs at different points in time during the sales process. So, yes.
You do, you, you need to talk to both. If you want to have the true understanding.
Okay. And then I'm sorry, it was a 2 part. I should have set it up, but.
Sure. It's okay.
And then also on top of that, there's like, we're putting together a list of clients slash individuals we will contact based off of our network.
But some of them we know that they use. A similar tool that's kind of it's in the competitive space of Club Rec.
Yep.
And then others is more gonna be like a discovery call, right? Like I would love to know like how to set that up, you know, like the purpose of like, okay, like it's easier said when we know that someone's actually using a competitor, right?
It's easier not sale, but it's the easier like, we can generate our questions easier based off of what you've provided us the past few days.
But when it comes to like that discovery car with the individual that we may not know that what tool they're using, like how do we set that?
Yeah, couple of things here one is that wouldn't With the way you described it those individuals may not fit within the bucket of an actual jobs interview.
That's like you said a discovery call. You're trying to feel out whether they might fit.
So that's slightly different. However, I also sent something else earlier, which is. They're doing something.
Right? Even if it's nothing, even if they're just tolerating their current situation without making progress or they're doing something that you're not aware of.
So that discovery call might give you a hint. A new level of criteria. So for those of you that aren't quite sure who to talk to because there's nothing clear specific yet that they're hiring.
You may just want to have a conversation with them to understand their process and what they're struggling with day to day within the domain of what you're trying to learn more about.
And in doing so, something might be revealed. That they do that becomes a pattern. So one that's very common in B to B that I've already mentioned a few times is very often organizations hire people to do things that a lot of the times tools that you all are building could actually do the job for.
So. So figure out who was hired, who came up with the job, who invented the role. And then what they were doing it for in the first place and that might back door you into knowing who to talk to and in what way.
But it's it's more of a discovery category. So I would almost remove that from the jobs to be done analysis.
Okay. Yep, perfect. Thanks.
Does that answer your question or? Okay, Kevin.
Yeah, hi, Neil. Hi, everyone. So yeah, getting back to, what you were talking about where when you get to that demand level where it's so great that you're literally trying to see what VC meeting you're gonna take next which is obviously a very good problem to have once you've reached that point.
My question is, is that You know, you can in the jobs to be done. Go after those clients that let's say they went with somebody else that was a competitor and you can do those interviews and find out what it was, what were the reasons that they decided to go with that other person that has that other product.
But then on the other hand, there's also that interview that you can conduct where they didn't go with another product and they just didn't do anything at all.
And I know you were saying at 1 point that those aren't really your customers. My question is, is that maybe it's because what you pitched to them was not resignating or was not creating a high enough demand to satisfy a need or a burning desire.
And so if we were to take it from that perspective and look at it like from the jobs to be done of asking like, well, what was it of why you decided not to do anything?
You know, what was the need there that you didn't make any kind of move at all? You didn't go with anybody else, you didn't go with us.
Yeah.
And if you can figure out what that demand is, that might even be more powerful because then you've sort of created a huge this spark with this demand where men if somebody has a competition or has a competitor at that point they may leave that competitor because your product has such a demand and such a need and you filled that gap.
This is where the vitamin and painkiller analogy really comes to bear, Kevin, because I think what you're alluding to is a vitamin because Someone who would benefit from what you're offering, but is not consuming anything.
Right.
The problem isn't visceral enough for them to take action. So. It's more of a nice to have.
Yep.
And I'll use a morbid analogy. Healthcare. Each of us has something that we're not going to the doctor for.
But we should in a proactive preventative way. So we're not addressing it until we have to address it.
So that's a lot of people out there that you imagine as a customer of yours, but isn't quite ready yet to be your customer of yours, but isn't quite ready yet to be your customer.
That's all I'll say there. Like, Maybe, that maybe I'm wrong and maybe there's a nuance in your situation that we can unpack more directly.
But like time and time again. What I hear from founders is this wishful thought that they're not consuming anything.
What we offer is completely unique. No one's done what we've done before. And once they know what it is in the right way, they'll sign up for it.
And I'm like, that is usually a fool's Aaron. There's probably demand we need to uncover from someone who is literally trying to make progress and willing to spend money to make progress.
They just haven't found the right answer yet, but they're demonstrating other efforts to make progress regardless.
Yeah. And that's why, that's why I'm saying that I think that jobs to be done interview is almost the most crucial finding out you know those people that aren't buying and what is it that maybe they're not going with a competitor but they're just not buying anything.
What are they tolerating though? No, but what are they tolerating by not buying anything?
Right.
So that's the that's the question, right? So I might be asking you now, we'll figure it out, but like.
There, yeah. Right. Yeah.
Right.
They're tolerating something. Because there's literally nothing good enough. That's a date that's a hard group to appeal to.
But good luck. I'll help you.
Okay.
All right, so Martha.
Yeah, hey, good afternoon, Neil. So I think I get the jobs to be done for work.
It makes a lot of sense. One thing that I'm struggling with though is defining the customer persona exactly.
So let me give some background. So initially we were focused on commercial real estate lawyers. Because we, based on our research, we found that CRE contracts.
You know would benefit greatly from the kind of AI tool we were creating. But we also know that every kind of contracts lawyer out there would benefit from our tool.
So as we're doing our jobs to be done interview, should we kind of pigeonhole our persona into just CRE lawyers at the moment?
Or should be kind of target. The broader generalist contract tech lawyer.
I want to remove the notion of a persona from your vocabulary. First of all, because we're not even trying to use anything like a persona at this phase.
And instead what we're trying to do is kind of what I have rendered here, which is.
Rather than a category of a bucket that someone fits, it's a situation that they struggled to recently or an action that they took to make progress.
Very, very simply stated. So not a persona, not a category, not a characteristic of who they are or what they're doing, but an action that they recently took to make progress through a struggling moment that fits into the, into the, the needs that you're trying to fulfill through your product.
Gotcha. Okay.
Because do all those like jumbled words make sense? I know I'm saying it in an abstract way.
No, it does. It does, yeah.
So I hope what I'm saying actually is resonate.
That is huge. I think a lot of you on this call are gonna need to challenge your like preconceived beliefs just like smart.
So another thing, that I would challenge you on is it sounds like You have a product that you know could be helpful and you're searching for it an audience.
To serve it to, which is absolutely the opposite of what we want you to get at. So I might even ask you to like pause on trying to research to find a potential ICP that would benefit from your product and rather.
Start from the ground up in this way and I promise it will yield a lot more results from the way that product searching for a customer versus customer searching for a product.
Yeah, no, I think that makes sense. I mean, we We do. We have identified situations with per CRE lawyers, I guess.
I'm not going to classify that as a persona, but that situation. So I guess, yeah, I mean, I guess what you guys are saying makes sense.
It's identified the situation and then the action that in this case somebody would take. And that pain point that comes about in order to
So yeah. Okay.
Yeah, buddy. You're gonna like I will never release my grip on that approach. Like it will be I will I will bore you to death with repeating that.
So I'm here for it though. Yeah, no problem.
Gotcha. Yeah, thank you guys.
Great. Alright, any other questions?
We're good. Wow, we did it. Alright, so we got plenty of time left. Best to do it live.
If, if you know, you know. Who's struggled to purchase something recently?
Oh. Yeah, and tell me, like when I say struggle to purchase. You have to tell me that you you purchased it and you need to tell me how much you paid.
Malaria.
I, I could go on this. Yeah, I literally yesterday and like earlier today was struggling to purchase the flight tickets out to Oakland.
Okay, and how much?
I paid $505 for 2 tickets.
Yeah.
For 2 tickets. Like total. Good job. Alright, that's actually pretty good.
Alright, cool. I need more. So I need a whole menu of purchases. So I got a hilarious $505 2 flight tickets to Oakland.
Or are you flying into San Francisco? Got it. Okay. Oakland has an airport too, but you know, there's some questions about it.
San Francisco. I know, but tickets were so much more expensive.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I got you
Who else? Shuffled to purchase something recently.
Yeah, but give me one.
I got a lot of lot of purchases recently. Yeah, I think the most the most high value one I lease the car.
For, for Oakland primarily, we needed in the family, but I needed it.
We needed a second car and it's a perfect time because we'll need it over there. Yeah, we lease it.
You bought a car?
It's kind of the same.
Yeah, I get it. Okay, how much?
A down payment was 2,500. And the monthly payment is 3 50, more less.
3 50. Okay, got it. And you still have the the first car?
Alright, that's good. What kind of car is it?
Yeah. My wife needs it. Yeah. It's 2024 Masda CX 30.
I know that car. All right, cool. Very cool. That's good one.
Alright, give me some more.
Man.
No one struggled. You all just like spending all the money we already put in your bank account on everything.
You all good? Okay, let's do it.
I, I got one that's correlated as well. Recently I had to find a car insurance for my partner who's a new driver and it's super hard to get a car company to agree to take them on.
Especially for a price that's sort of reasonable. So. That's been a challenge.
Hmm. So, so did you sign up for insurance?
We did end up signing an insurance, but it was like. 10 days of struggling and getting refused left and right until we found a company that will take us over for not a small premium.
How much?
As about a hundred €80 a month for a car insurance. Yeah, that's steep.
Yeah.
Got it, okay. Yeah, yeah gotcha. All right.
I have one.
You unmuted. Alright.
Oh no.
No? Okay, he's like it all, never mind. Ali?
Sure.
Yeah, slightly different, not a car, but I recently struggled to make the decision to purchase a membership in a social club.
To you know spend network and just get out of my conference zone and it was pricey so It was a little bit of a struggle.
What was the price?
It's $2,800.
Annual subscription, yes. Yeah.
Like total or some skip. Annual. So, 2,000 annually and you signed up for it and you paid.
Okay.
I did, I did. Yeah. And yeah I went through the competitors and like you know different alternatives and
How long ago?
Couple months ago.
Yes, I know.
That's interesting.
Okay.
Couple months ago you paid almost 3 grand for a social club Okay, yeah, no, I'm not judging it like I just to be clear like I am a founding member of Soho House Chicago.
So. Yeah, that's me.
Yeah, I mean, but, but again, that that speaks of the circumstances of certain, you know, of the buyers.
I get it. Yeah, yeah. Okay, alright, that's a good one. Mark.
So yeah, that's a good experience.
Standing desk.
I bought a standing desk. And, And this thing I can bounce around.
You struggled to buy a standing desk and a balance board?
Struggling and not really struggling. And just both. So the one.
That's why I asked. Cause I'm like, is that a struggle? Yeah.
Well, Neil doesn't mean, he doesn't mean struggle financially to be clear, like we don't mean like only with money.
It's the decision was hard for you. It could be emotional, social.
You struggle to make the decision. You were struggling because of either options considerations taking the action. That's exactly right.
Yes, yes it it was. It was like this. Yeah.
Okay.
And it was because of some back problems. I didn't know how to solve it, solve them.
So I I went through all the direction, all the directions I could. I both a new mattress.
How's your back?
So back to the, and, about those 2 things. And, much better.
It's much better. Okay. Alright, I like that. And you bought a mattress.
When did you buy the mattress?
Much better. Yeah. Not only because of those What? Yes, yes, so.
When did you get the mattress?
Oh, when, sorry. And it was maybe 3 months ago.
Something like this. Yeah.
Should we do a should we do a redux? Should we do another mattress interview in this day and age?
Okay.
I wanna hear all the options.
That's too easy.
That's 2, All right, David. This is fun. I like hearing what people spend their money on.
Yeah, small per purchase. But took me almost a year to make was a new pair of black boots.
How much?
Just like classy. 2 20 ish $2020
Okay, I wouldn't say that's a small purchase. That's legit. $220 for some boots.
That's like a, you know, buy it for life type of thing, right? I got you. Okay.
Exactly.
And then why like why could you how could you afford to wait a year to buy new boots?
It was like factors of. Do I really need them? Is this price really worth it?
Hmm.
Is it on, is it gonna be on sale anytime soon kind of thing? And so that was like the content like back and forth and then I would use kind of holidays to be like, it's Christmas, it's your birthday.
You just got a bonus.
So did you treat yourself for some reason? Like you got in a Tax, S, and you're embassing new boots or like what what happened?
Almost it was kinda like I almost saw the boots as like, okay, a step away from sneakers in terms of professionalism.
Okay.
I was like, okay, now I kinda have. Some reason kind of produces boots in terms of changing persona, I guess.
I got you. I got you. Alright, that's good. I like black boots.
It's a hill.
Yeah, we were, struggling with which firm to use to do our taxes.
This one firm came highly recommended from all of our partners but they were a little bit more than all of the money that we spend in 2023 So it just didn't really seem to make sense for us.
At the time. So, we found another firm that other taxes and gives us bookkeeping and other stuff.
How much?
But they're not specific. 2,500.
For like an instance or what kind of commitment is the 2,500.
Yeah, they we can go to them with any questions they give us the book keeping software they'll do the taxes this year.
Okay.
So yeah, still a good offering, but just not fintech specific.
Got it. Got it. Alright, interesting. Alright, a few more.
Antonio.
My purchase was very cheap but yet it was a tough choice it was a $50 drone for my girlfriend's kids birthday And I didn't realize how many options are today for drones.
So,
So you struggled to purchase something for someone else. But you knew you needed to get one.
Hi, I wanted to get one that was like the best quality, you know, like some one I find was only for EDP camera and then I found for 10 EDP the same price, you know, and And so all the all the features.
Oh, the, all the different features for the drone. Yeah, but it was like a, a birthday gift.
It was not for me.
Right, right, right. But the expectation was that you would buy a
The acceleration was I would buy drawn and I want I want him to be happy to and content of the gifts.
I get it. No, it's good. That's good. I like that.
Yes, it was a high stakes. That sounds Yeah.
That's it. These are all interesting and worth unpacking by the way. So apologies to all the people I can't decide on, but we'll get there. We got a few more left.
Snow.
Actually, my case is similar with the, so precisely I needed it to pay, Delaware franchise tax.
And I'm getting help from the service named Dula and they told me that I need to pay for 100 $450 for the franchise tax.
But we didn't, I, we didn't earn that money last year. So I was curious about if it is the coast is for the Delaware or do I pay for it to the Dula?
So the kind of struggles I had.
I will say with all these examples, I'm proud of you all because one of the most like common indicators of successful founders at the early stages, frugality.
So the fact that you all are being cautious about your dollars and how you're spending them makes me proud.
So good on you. All right, Jalo.
Okay, this one's a doozy. So we had legal counsel that was a friend of a friend.
Basically try to be frugal, but they just weren't cutting it. They weren't doing Great.
Yeah.
And I recently went through a co-founder. Divorce? And that, that legal counsel was their friend.
So it was like the decision to stay with our legal counsel. And just assume that they're going to like do the right thing by Travis or find new legal counsel.
And just kind of like accept the sunk cost. Of what we paid for the retainer. And so then we ended up, making the decision to find new legal counsel.
And we looked at a number of different options. So there's a lot of pushes and pulls.
Yeah.
Like do I stay because I wanna be loyal? Do I know because it's like conflict of interest or do I say because we're poor and we don't have any money so all the things and so then we ended up going with a legal council.
How much?
Called Bellawood and they're amazing like they just it was a third party they were neutral 2,500 retainer.
And then their rates were like a third the cost of the ones that we found in SF.
Okay. Okay. And things are going well so far.
Okay.
Really good. Everything due diligence is almost done. So. Yeah.
Alright, nice. All right. It's a doozy, but it's also a happy ending.
At least so far. Okay. Good, very good. Alright, I like that.
Right, cause we have these, new co-founders here. So yeah. Okay.
Hey everyone, that's December. I, finally like replaced my, 10 years old MacBook Pro.
Are you a new one? And I think it was because of habits of the, that I struggle, like keeping my 10 years old.
MacBook Pro, but he was actually affecting my productivity. There was no more speakers, which is not very convenient for calls and so on.
But somehow right it took me sometime to to do that.
When did you buy the new computer?
In December.
I bet there was something that happened that triggered you to buy.
The latest modem.
In December. My book, I mean waiting for the latest, That was the trigger. So the latest, Macbook Pro release.
It came out and then you bought it right away.
Okay. Alright. Okay.
Almost, yeah, 2 weeks later. At the same time, I replace my iPhone 7 by a iPhone, 15 pro at the same time.
Replacement.
All right, last one, Christy.
So I share with Fabian, I recently, got the latest iPhone. And the struggle is.
I had my phone stolen twice. And so the second time it happened, I just end up borrowing, my sister's very old iPhone, iPhone 10.
And I was pretty happy with it, but I figure. You know, when I'm, it doesn't have enough memory.
I was struggling with like, Personally, I was fine with it, but it's all the things that I would relying on things of the like taking pictures, doing zoom calls.
It wasn't serving my needs anymore, but I was kind of struggling with like, oh, that's a big expense.
And then what if I lose it again? So that was my main struggle, but I figured I deserve it and there's always insurance.
Yeah. So what's fascinating with all these, that thank you for sharing Christy with all these examples is that what I would implore each of you to do.
Is if you have co-founders, at least on your team. You should have them interview you about the purchase.
So whichever ones I don't choose, like it's a great way to practice is to talk to someone else about what that purchase was about and see if you can apply these techniques.
Because every what you're hearing from some of the folks that are describing these purchases is that they think they know.
Why they bought it and what drove them to do it. They're using jobs language to go, I struggle with this or my habits or this.
Test those assumptions. Because I think I know which one we're going to do live right now.
Ally. I need to know what's up with this. $2,800 social club. Let's do it.
We really do.
You are on the hot seat. Like, let's get into this like you. I'm gonna PIN you.
We are gonna make this happen. Alright, so.
Do you just want insights for your Soho Club? I mean, you can interview me.
With
Yeah, no, I, look, I, I'm probably similar to you in that I'm keeping it reluctantly.
I'm keeping my membership reluctant. I don't even go there. Like it means more to tell people I'm in it than anything else.
You don't even live there.
Yeah.
That being said, That being said, maybe I'm wrong. Like you may need to interview me to figure out what I actually meant by that.
Who knows? Right?
Bye, take you up on that one. Maybe we need to have a bothway interview here in that.
Yeah.
Yeah, sure, sure. Yeah, that's right. That's right. So, all right, so Liliana and I are gonna do this.
Okay, so we are You know, I'm Neil, this is Liana. Thank you for taking the time.
We know you recently signed up for the social club. What was it called?
The battery.
Yes, yes.
The I know the battery that's in San Francisco right I've been there. Okay. Yeah, so Very cool.
We'd love to get to know you better and find more people like yourselves and also like is it okay if we record this?
Yes, please go ahead.
We'll keep it internal. It's not for your sharing.
Great. Alright, so. Yep, we'll keep it to ourselves. It's only for research purposes.
And by the way, just so you know, like all due respect, there's a chance that I might interject from time to time just to respect your time and make sure that we're on the same page.
And we also might ask a lot of really like very detailed specific questions. So just think of it like we're, you know, writing the script for a documentary, if you will, and we're trying to make sure that we have all of the details, right?
So forgive us if we, you know, become overly specific with how we ask our questions. Cool.
Perfect.
Great. Alright, so tell us when you signed up for the battery.
I signed up, beginning the first days of January. I can't remember the exact date but early January.
Early January, okay. And then, if I recall correctly, you said you, you paid, was it $2,800 for an annual membership?
Yeah.
Yes.
Did you have to pay it all upfront? Okay, got it. Okay, that's really helpful.
So And, and, and, and remind me, like, where do you live?
I live in San Francisco, I live in the mission.
Okay, so you live in San Francisco and you live in the mission and this place called the battery from my understanding it's a social club of some kind, right?
It is, yeah, they, they present themselves as a social club.
Okay, and have you been a part of another social club before this?
I have not. I've been guest. You know, I used to live in Miami in the past, so I was familiar with Soho and one hotel, so there's there's many there, but I haven't been a bear myself.
Got it. And then how long have you been living in San Francisco?
6 years now.
6 years and in your 6 years in San Francisco, you haven't been a part of a social club
No, I have not.
Have you visited a social club like the battery?
Insf I have been once to the battery, but I haven't been walking around social clubs here.
Got it. And then, oh, go ahead, Lilian. Yeah, sorry.
Can you remember when that was? Like the one the one time that you went.
Yes, I think it was around September last year.
Cool.
You liked it.
And I liked it. I mean, I thought it was, I thought it was nice, the people I was with.
Were nice and a lot of conversations just wanted so kind of like felt felt like a good experience.
It was a good experience, but I mean. Let's just be honest, 3 grand a lot of money.
So what what you know, what makes it worth it for you.
So at the time, a what happened last year was, for well for the last few years I've been working a lot consumed by a lot of work and I was relying on my existing social network here in NSF.
So I didn't put a lot of effort in growing that. I put an effort on keeping my friends and you know like have my social life be it's important for me but I was kind of like taking it for granted and what happened in the last year is that a lot of my friends have moved out of town.
And kind of like changed a little bit their lives and so I thought well, the appetite to stay in the city.
Is not as high as it was before. And if I'm gonna be all consumed by work and I want to take on, you know, more responsibility and things that take my time, I need to find a way to keep my social life alive.
And because I care so much about that. I thought that the value that it was offering kind of like you know, compensated the cost and was worth a try for a year.
So that was a little bit how I thought about it.
Yeah, tell me more about why like keeping your social life up is I as you said the most important to you.
Hmm.
Yeah, I'm I'm an extrovert. And I I've lived in many places in my life like I've moved around.
And, I live far from my, my family. My family are mostly in Spain, Dubai, Argentina, and so.
To me building a community around me keeping that alive being part of all the people's life and the other way around keeps me grounded.
And so I need a place to come back home, you know, and, and that's why it's very important to me.
I everyday need to have a social interaction that is meaningful and and that means anything you know like it doesn't need to be special but it gives me a lot of energy and keeps me grounded here.
Yeah.
So before signing up in January for the battery, you visited it in September, but it says you just said that every day you need some sort of interaction socially.
So what have you been doing to scratch this social itch? Before signing up.
I mean, I keep friends, it's not like all my friends are gone. I am, I'm, I'm working quite a bit on aware, so I have a lot of social interaction with my co-founder.
Yeah.
But on top of that, I mean, I still have my, social network here. It's just a matter of expanding it.
And getting to know also different type of people. That can be interesting also for the moment professionally that I'm going through.
Okay, so I'm trying to make sense of this because on one side I've heard from you that you've had friends who've left and you want to keep that social thing going but on the other side I'm hearing that you're working on a business.
Yes, that's true.
And that there seems to be a desire for like networking from a business context. So are we talking about both one or the other is one more important.
That's a very good question now that I, you're making me think about it because the battery presents themselves as a social club.
But the reality is that the perception of the batteries that it's a good networking. Place in and so I when I thought about it I thought about those 2 angles I thought hey this is great because 1 one decision making point for me was the fact that they are opening up a working space.
And so I, I can, you know, go there, work from there and I can still be working on my network at the same time and that may lead to things that I'm not thinking of now.
So you're right. It's it's 2 things.
Okay, got it. So it's both factors. So that's helpful to hear now. Did you make this decision on by yourself?
Or are there other people involved in helping you think through whether this was a good call?
Yes, I did discuss this with many people. Because I, I mean, it's, it's a commitment and, you know, as much time social I don't like to commit my time a lot.
But I thought about this, you know, I'm gonna commit my time because I need to, you know, have a return.
So I need to spend time there. I talk to my friends and I talk to my family about it.
And I talked about both these things, you know, like the expansion in terms of socializing. And potential opportunities that may come present themselves from a professional standpoint and 100% of the people said yes
Was that in December? In December, do you talk to everybody then or was it sometime in January?
I think over Christmas I discussed it with my family. Because I was in Spain and then Yeah, with my friends.
Like the whole family together at the dinner table or was there someone you had a conversation with directly?
Huh.
So, no, no, not so serious as being our table, but, I talked to my mom a lot and my sister lives in Dubai so she also is a member in social clubs and and so I discussed it with them informally.
With my friends I'd be talk through like from September on until January like last minute that wasn't the way I do these great notes and like they were on the phone last minute.
Okay, at the last minute, tell me what do you mean by the last minute? Like before you were deciding in January?
Yeah, because at the end of the day, you know, the real time, the real moment is when you need to, give them your clicker number, right?
So. Not buyers remorse but buyers.
Well, what triggered you to like even pull up the website in January? You pull up the website and you're like, all right, my new year's resolution is to be in a social club or like what's going on?
And where were you when you were doing that?
No, it's a process. It's a process. You need to you need to have a referral so you can't just apply.
Right.
Somebody needs to endorse you and refer you and that's when you can fill in an application. And then, you know, there's a there's an an interview and well.
Interview. And, and that's when we, they opened the door to signing up.
So it's a process and throughout that process you get excited because they show you nice things and you have this conversation with your friends and your projecting what it will be.
But the last minute is when they say, hey, you've been accepted. Now you need to give us your money.
So that's the last minute to, you know, just, change your mind.
Who offered up the referral for you?
Former colleague.
And when did you ask them for the referral?
Generally.
Okay, so, so you went from referral to closing fairly quickly.
Yeah, so I think it was like a week and a half or so.
So when you reached out to your friend in early January Like the ask was, hey, I'm ready to sign up for the battery.
Will you refer to me or?
Yes, and good good question because I didn't I didn't explain you the timeline accurately enough you can fill in your application at any point in time.
But they only get to see it when you have a referral. So I feel in my application early on, like when I started thinking about it and I was like, okay, let's fill in the application.
When was that?
This means nothing. Most probably October, November. And so
Oh, okay, so in October and November, you filled out the application, but you kind of sat on it.
Yeah, exactly. And then generally I was like, I think I'm gonna do this. Let's go with it and I asked for the endorsement and then everything follows through very quickly after that.
We're special about January. Why didn't you ask for the endorsement after you fill out the application?
Was it because you had come back from seeing all your family?
Hmm.
Cause I traveled for a month, to Spain, so I wasn't going to be here and I thought, you know, this is, you know, let's start it with a new year.
I don't know. It's psychological trick of the year.
Okay, now when you
So did you call your friend or did you email them or text them?
I, I texted him. We, were gonna meet and, then I suggested that we meet in the battery and, we had lunch in over lunch.
Got it. So you went to the battery. And your plan was to ask him. Okay.
Yeah, that. Well, we have those things to discuss, but yeah, in the back of my head, I thought, well, you know, if If this goes well, I'll ask him if not, you know, I'll find someone else.
So okay, so you weren't but your intention was to ask him at lunch if you could. Okay.
Yeah.
Understood. That's great. All right. So, Given that, do you have any other friends who are at the battery?
Okay.
I have mostly friends or friends, who are in the battery. Okay, cause again, I had friends who were in the battery before, but they have left the city.
Yeah, so you said friends have left. So up to that point though, like you could meet with your friend at the battery, had friends of friends that were there, and then on the work side, I'm not quite clear on like.
Like where were you working before? You working from home or were you, did you have another co-working space you were working out of?
No, I was working from home.
Okay, and and is that still going well? Are you spending time with the battery in home or?
Yeah, I tried to make it a couple days a week there. I'm not always you know, breaking habits is difficult as we've been discussing.
So. Sometimes I get like all the calls getting the way of me going there but I'm I'm trying to be there twice a week either for work.
Or meeting coworkers as well you know that are downtown and so we can meet there it's convenient.
Or either for drinks at night. That's the social element of it too.
Got it. And then, we'll go game off in a second. Liana, but, my other question is, Was there anything else that you considered?
Yeah, so I think in the back of my head, there was a lot of like, I mean, in this city for 6 years and what else is in the city that I haven't explored, you know, like.
Is it is gonna help also i mean there's a lot of events and there's a lot of different people that you can meet there so I guess I was thinking of.
These as an opportunity to squeeze a little bit more out of my experience in ASF. Also thinking you know like in the years ahead is this still going to be the city where I stay or do I move out so I wanted to give it a try to just bring a little bit of shine to the city after 6 years.
I have a
If that makes sense to you.
A bit of shine. Oh, sorry, Lilian.
Just one final question before we go game off. When you were putting in your credit card info, you said that you felt anxious at the end, although you had been so excited about it the whole time.
So what happened at the end? And if you can remember where you were, like were you at home and was this during the work day?
I just want to understand like that moment when you put in your credit card.
Yeah. I, I was at home. I think I for sure was at home and I think Neil said it earlier, you know, as a founder, you need to be lean on your expenses and this is not.
Good example of that. So a lot of my anxiety was coming from there. You know, it's like, am I gonna regret this?
Like is, is code on code investing on myself and on this aspect of my life the right move at this aspect of my life the right move at this moment.
Or should I just be preparing for the winter? So that was a lot of my anxiety. Just.
Making sure that I wasn't making a mistake. But I think that I can't remember quite well what was the last thought that crossed my head.
But you were all alone.
But at the end of the day, Yeah, I was alone at home. I was alone at home.
I was I think I mentioned that I talked to a friend I was chatting and I was like, hey guys, I'm going to do these.
Are you sure? And they were like, yeah, absolutely is gonna be the best. And we, we want to go with you like, you know, if If we like it, we're joining you next year.
So,
Oh really? So it was like a large group text?
Oh yeah, I mean, I, yeah, what's up? Well, in this case was a couple, so not a super large group, my friends Jesse and Solange.
I kind of like my decisions by then.
Okay. Oh, okay, so Jesse and Solon were the 2 friends that you spoke to about it.
Yes, yes, yes.
Okay, and then both of them want to sign up. After they see how it goes with you.
Okay, they're excited. They're excited. Yeah, Jesse is very social and, and so he's, excited about.
Joining me every other time and I mean, they said they would consider it. Whether there's any water on that on that or not, I'm not sure yet.
Well, they can just go whenever you're there now, right? They're good. They got you to buy, you know, buy it.
Yeah.
Okay, exactly. I mean, they don't need to pay the membership. They already have me.
Oh.
There you go.
The deal is they will pay the drinks when we go there. So, that's You know, membership pays for itself almost.
That's great. All right, so let's go game off. There's more to do, but like let's give Ally a round of applause.
Thank you, Allie.
That was very good. That was awesome. Let's do a very quick mini debrief.
Yeah. I loved it. Thank you.
So like we didn't get into like as much as we could there. But a couple things. I would love to hear from the room.
What you heard, what you didn't hear, what you would have asked, what you'd still like to clarify, and maybe what some of the forces were.
And remember, this was 15 min. So that was about half of what you all will do. Yours will be like 25 to 30 min.
So that was pretty much halfway. And we could have gotten kind of 2 times the amount. So I'm also curious what you would have also wanted to dig into if we extended it.
I guess. I found it interesting how she mentioned like the membership kind of pace for itself if her friends are buying drinks like the ending note there kind of stood out to me like the rationale behind that and so you kind of like dig in deeper on that on like how she I guess values things because have you ever heard of like girl math almost?
Yes.
Like that's kind of what it was reminiscent of, and so I'd love to kind of dig into that and see like where the value then becomes like.
On par, I guess.
Yeah.
And
It was just about to get good. It was just about to get good. Like we were right there on the cusp of like, oh wait, there's more going on here.
Yeah.
Jesse in salon, like I want to get to know them what's happening here with this socializing.
So there was a lot more to impact right at the end there. I agree with you.
He's up. Yep.
Yeah, we're getting good. So it does take like probably like 10 to 15 to really like find the story and figure out the energy points and then you are like oh that's why it's so good to be on a phone call because if that was me and Neil, we can even be in different places.
We could all be on a phone call. We mute it. And have a phone call on a separate line, have a zoom where you're talking to each other or be in the same room and you can talk.
So a lot of the time we'll meet it and if we're in the same room or on a separate call, oh, like ask about the friends, like something like that, because then you can have this background discussion.
Cavian?
Yeah, anding, ending note, I think also, was a good one. Also when there was that work, shine and like I think like drilling down a little bit more on social versus business because it was not entirely clear.
Digging a little bit more on those 2. I think I could reveal even more and a lot, elite prestige stuff.
I think there was more there to unpack.
Great. Kelvin.
Yeah, that was a very nice interview. I think one of the things that stood out, which I believe we could have Just explode a little bit more is some of the one of things that is more like a push the money she paid besides just the drinks, making it pay for itself, the fact that it's also serves as a co- space.
Yeah, is it a business expense or is it personal? Right.
Kind of just exploring that angle a bit. Might you know because if you're paying for co-work space is like the 2 8 is like paying for office space Somewhere for, yeah, we, it naturally makes sense.
So, in a way, I think that would have been, that was one of the pushes that may have.
And I.
That's right. Great. That's great.
That is so good, Kelvin. That was actually something I was gonna ask. Like, did you pay for this with your business money?
Ally, did you?
Cause that kind of changes it completely. Yeah.
I, I can see one of the things that made me make the decision was the co-working space for sure and I thought that I could write off at least from a tax perspective these being a business investment.
Alright, cool.
Brian.
Hmm. Good job, Kevin. Brian?
Mine is just to site an observation. I'm just very fascinated by from the time she had the first thought to the point where she made the purchase.
She was very indecisive, you know, so it kind of gives you a lot of appreciation and a customer actually makes a purchase because there's so many opportunities or call them pools and anxieties to get a not to.
Make the actual patches. So I find that very, very intriguing. Yeah.
And I would go so far to say, Brian, that we're not even sure when the first start was.
I don't think we got to that yet. Cause I know she visited the battery in September, but I'm guessing that there were other inputs and other things that happened.
Yep.
Yeah.
Yeah, you're right.
Yeah, more there. Mark?
So I wonder, something that they shouldn't they scale infinitely like it's not like startup or matrices that you want to sell infinitely.
Like it's not like a scale infinitely like it's not like start out or matrices that you want to sell as much as you can.
You got limited amount of space for a limited amount of people. So I wonder how can we apply this specific situation to our startup.
And ideas or
Yeah, well, you're not appealing to everybody right now. There's certain customers that you want more than anyone else.
So figuring out how to understand them and appeal to them is what this is about.
Okay.
I'll get more into that in the W 3 workshop, but you're gonna be surprised.
We're, we're not going after the whole market like.
Antonio.
You have no observation a question. The observation is the way you ask questions. You know, kinda unveiled things that she wasn't aware like, at first, like, first she said it's for social and then she realize actually is also for business.
And so I think it was a interesting observation there and how to ask questions and and be open to new possibilities in the interview.
And then the one technical question I had I noticed both you and Lianna were asking question is this something that we can do also in our interview, both of us has a question.
Yes. Yes. And one is driving. So I was like more the driver.
Lilianna would be the one taking more of the notes and identifying what the gaps are and filling in those gaps.
As we're going. Absolutely.
And it's up to you, cause I like, like personally, I like being described and not saying as much and like being with the other person and giving them hints so that it's a lot more coming from the driver and then you only interject if there's like a burning question that is a gap.
But then we just kinda did a lot more balance, a lot more how you heard in the mattress interview where there were 2 people asking.
Matthew?
Hey, that was really fun. I thought I don't know if I'm wrong, but I thought that Ali, you emotionally wanted to join a club.
And at first you had rational reasons not to do, not to do that. And the most of the process was actually to find rational reasons to eventually make the jump and join.
So to me there was a almost like a conflict between the emotional part of the decision and the rational part of the decision.
I love that you say that because I was thinking that I wanted to make that comment in the end. I think I built a rational to the weight.
Or rather not to do it, but not not to do it. But it was an emotional decision.
Like that in that, that last second about like putting the money was about me was not about the working space and everything else that definitely helped.
You know, balance the, the push backs. But it wasn't emotional decision. So I think you're absolutely right.
Pardo.
Hey, everyone. Great interview. Just one thing that's it off for me early on was that she mentioned her friends had been moving out.
So I think that atrophy in her peer group led to more like primal pole and wanting to continue to reinforce her peer group and build more resilient relationships that aren't going to atrophy over time and that seemed to be more of a climb will pull towards the, at least to me it's stood out.
Yeah.
Being social creatures, something that. Huh? Let's set out based off the jobs to be done interview.
Oh yeah, loud and proud. I am an extrovert. I'm a social person. You know what I mean?
Yeah.
That was clear. You can feel it.
Yeah. So shoot, I just stood out to me as being a push actually.
Yeah. Yeah. David.
Yeah, question actually for you, Neil. And so when any of you started. And she mentioned the battery, you kinda were like, oh, I know the battery.
And me personally, I also live in San Francisco. I'm familiar with the battery been there couple times.
And so I kind of had this preconceived notion in my head. And I was curious, just I know you said you knew and I was wondering like, did you have any preconceived notions and how did you I guess combat that to having open slate.
And like use that on your questioning to make sure you're learning about the experience.
Yeah. Sure. Yeah, I did that to build rapport with Ali as if I did not know her and I was trying to say, oh, okay, yeah, the battery, like I'm familiar.
What I should have done in addition to that, David, what you're calling out is ask Ali to explain to me what the battery is.
Right? I should have done that. I didn't do that. But I was like more about the social kind of dynamic thing there and that kind of thing.
So you build rapport at the same time you also need to play D. So I'm glad you called that out.
Yep.
Li know you have a sharp 12, so I can handle it from here. Folks want to stick around, but obviously we should call it at time.
Okay, yeah.
But I'm happy to answer more questions with a few more minutes. But I hope that was good y'all.
Thanks everybody.
I hope you learned enough about jobs to feel like. You're signing up for the right thing. So we'll make it worth your while next week too.
But anything else you want to say before you leave?
No, that was great and thank you, Ally again for being our interview. We will see you guys tomorrow morning for base camp.
I can't wait. Talk to you guys later.
Thank you, bye.
I love being on time. I love the timeliness. This is fun.
I'm still here bonus time. Who needs it?
Yep.
Hey, Neil